# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - Feb 3, 2022

## Administrative
- Attendance: 33
- Lead by Phil Odence
- Minutes from last meeting approved

## Steve Hendrick w/report on SBOM readiness

- [Press release about the report](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/tools/the-state-of-software-bill-of-materials-sbom-and-cybersecurity-readiness/)
- [Report itself](https://linuxfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/LFResearch_SBOM_Report_final.pdf)
- Showing a selected set of slides from the report
- In all his years as an industry analyst, he never heard of SBOMs. Now though, it's about to become a massive market.
- Was careful to not be too LF biased by surveying a broad end user community.
- Anticipate a 60+ percent growth of orgs using SBOMsâ€¦if the tooling exists to support that growth. He hasn't yet looked at the tools that are out there.
- Not a lot of visibility for this from the vendors & tooling providers. Analysts also haven't yet done a market forecast for this, either.
- Discussion on formats that wasn't included in the report. Won't summarise here as it's not really public.

## Tech Team Report - Gary/Kate/Thomas
### Spec
#### Defects
- Thomas sent out Doodle poll to figure out date for next team call
- Multiple options on how to include vulnerabilities:  include, separate, and link
- Working on one document
#### Core 3.0
- Good progress on building concensus on when to use properties or relationships (packages containing files for example).   Follow along in spdx-3.0-model repo.
#### 2.3 Release
- Follow up from Docfest on some clarifications that emerged from comparisons.
- Anything that we need to help people adopt SPDX for presidential order.   Dick points out CMS issued an RFI that incorporates SBOM: https://sam.gov/opp/fe53a2be20094034b178e260f29cd0ad/view
- For licensing-related fields that are currently mandatory but can have noassertion, looking at permitting them to be made as optional for 2.3, presuming NOASSERTION if field is omitted.
### Tools
#### DocFest (Rose)
- Held on 1/27,  24 attendee,  identified - 6 topics - made it through all 6
- Thanks to analysis team for helping to understand the differences!
#### GSOC
- GSOC Summer of Code - Alexios will be lead.
- Please feel free to contribute
#### Tooling Release
- Rohit working on merge for Online tools.
- Working with CycloneDX team to have tools that interoperate.
- FOSDEM coming up this weekend - Software Composition and Dependency devroom, https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/track/software_composition_and_dependency_management/

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve
### License List
- Will release 3.16 this weekend.
- Good discussion on Fedora use of identifiers, and use between communities.
  - Historically added about 80 licenses to license list in 2014, based on Fedora's own list of licenses
  - Similar to discussion previously with Warner about use in FreeBSD
  - Will provide updates to General team on Fedora and FreeBSD as it proceeds

## Outreach Team Report -  Sebastian
- (getting update from email)

---------------------

## Attendees

* VM Brasseur
* Brad Goldring, GTC Law Group
* Christina Chen
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Steve Hendrick
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Dick Brooks
* Kate Stewart
* Alex Rybak
* Alexios Zavras
* Gary O'Neall
* Christine Chen
* David Edelsohn
* Edgar
* Jacob Wilson
* Jesse Porter, Qualcomm
* Karan Marjara
* Lena Smart
* Marc Etienne Vargenau
* Matthew Neal Miller, Red Hat Product Security
* Michael Herzog
* Paul Madick
* Pete Allor, Red Hat Product Security
* Phil Odence
* Steve Winslow
* William Cox
* Andrew Jorgensen
* Alfredo Espinosa
* Rose Judge
* Ria Schalnat
* Joe Bussell
* Joshua Dubin
* Michael Herzog
