# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - May 5, 2022


## Administrative
### Attendance: 24

* Lead by Phil Odence
* Minutes from last meeting approved.

## Steering Committee Update - Phil
* Overview of Steering Committe makeup (Chair, Team Leads - which have largely been the same for many years), plus the addition of one to two Member Representatives as per new governance and membership structure chosen by the SC from the 18 new member entities.
** See https://github.com/spdx/governance/blob/main/5._Governance.md for details on how it works
** Bob Martin (MITRE), May Wang (Palo Alto Networks)
* Question about package identifiers
** Gary: SPDX has thought about this a lot over the years
** Main role so far has continued to be enabling support for interfacing with a variety of different package ID methods (PURL, SWID, etc.)
** Expect to continue this and enable interchange rather than spinning up a brand new package ID method

## Tech Team Report - Gary/Kate/Thomas

### Spec
*SPDX 2.2.2 has been released

#### Defects

#### Core 3.0 Model
* Made good progress over last month to solidify core profile model
* Canonicalization team started up to work on serializations
* AI team has started up to work on optional profile
* Build team has started up to work on optional profile.
#### 2.3 Release
* Team is starting into pulling in the SPDX 2.3 PRs.
** focus on incorporating feedback from plugfests, when aligns with 3.0 direction.
** adding in some fields to improve exchange with CycloneDX of NTIA minimum
** adding in initial recommendations from Defects & Usage teams
#### New working groups
*

### Tools
* new utility moved to SPDX repo: takes SPDX docs looks at identification info and look up vulnerability data in open source vulnerability database; tool in prototype stage, Branden collaborating on this; more info to come
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-to-osv
#### GSOC
* Coming up on deadline for selecting slots - Alexios coordinating
* If any interest in being a mentor or otherwise participating, contact Alexios

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve
* Time for pull requests for next release
* Matching guidelines need to be dusted off
* FSFEurope conference for lawyers
** Jilayne and Richard Fontana presented on upsteam licenses
** Importance of machine readable communication
** Participation from upstream projects

## Outreach Team Report -  Sebastian
* Announced Sebastian as (formally) taking on role as Team Lead of Outreach Team and joining

##Steering Committee
* SPDX website update
** Auto generated parts being updated into a single site with cohesive appearance
* Starting up podcasts

## Attendees
* Adrian Diglio
* Andrew jogensen
* Alex Rybak
* Bob Martin
* Brad Goldring
* Christopher Lusk
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Johsua Watt
* Mark Atwood
* May Wang
* Phil Odence, Black Duck Audits/Synopsys
* Ria Schalnat
* Saul Wold
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow
* Steven C
* VM Brasseur (Wipro)
* Matthew Crawford  (Arm)
* Michael Herzog (NexB)
* Warner Losh
* Karsten Klein


        ---------------------
