# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - Nov 3, 2022

## Administrative
* Lead by Phil Odence
* Minutes from last meeting approved

### Attendance: 27


## Steering Committee Update - Phil
* Still struggling with V2.3 pdf
* Discussions with NexB about pulling in some licenses from their database
* 3.0 - readiing for actual spec writing
* Finalzing structure
* Could use some hands on writing help from those already involved
* SPDX for SBOM/Security Positioning

## Special Presentation - Security info in SBOMs - an update from the Defects WG - Thomas
* Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sKRHQV--tOo2mjBqHNdXy9YnSDlLOsaFgThtd5RjcIw/edit?usp=sharing


## Tech Team Report - Gary, Kate
* DocFest coming up Nov. 30 based on 2.3 spec, optionally 2.2
* Working to unblock any issues with sub-teams

### Spec
* 3.0 Core - Gary

    * Punch list of open items, working through
    * Started up extra 2 hour meeting every Friday
    * Should be transitioning to spec writeup soon
* Profile active progress towards 3.0
    * Build - Brandon
      * Making good headway, new GitHub repo with use cases, model
      * Focusing on a couple of build systems and mapping them
    * Licensing - Steve
      * Discussed substance in 2020 drafts, had submitted PR in old spec MarkDown format in spring 2021
      * Steve and Alexios aligned on formatting, will be submitting new PR to spdx-3-model repo
    * Defects - Thomas
    * Usage - most participants in Japan, not on General call
    * Linkage - no one on call
      * Gary: understand there's been a lot of discussion on structure, etc.
    * AI / data - Kate not on call
      * Sebastian - not on team but provided details: team has focused on details around training AI models on data sets, which can have different properties from the model itself and the software used to create the model
      * Focused on enabling producers / consumers of SPDX data to be able to better describe properties of AI systems
* Canoncalization - Sebastian: no updates for this meeting, more next time

## Legal Team Report - Steve
* 3.19 coming out shortly, focused on docs update so will be smaller set of new licenses
* 3.20 will be larger

## Outreach Team Report -  Sebastian
* Website and PDF updates taking longer than planned but moving along
* Special thanks to Thomas -- fully agree re: call to action, outreach help needed especially re: security
* Overall need to improve automated tooling for generating spec -- past processes of hand-created spec docs and artifacts haven't been sustainable for new 3.0 work


## Attendees
* Phil Odence, Synopsys/Black Duck Audits
* William Cox, Synopsys
* Jari Koivisto
* Bob Martin, Mitre
* Steven Carbno / Smart Talk Beacon
* Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor Inc.
* Thomas Steenbergen, EPAM Systems Inc,
* Maximilian Huber, TNG
* Alexios Zavras, Intel
* Brad Goldring, GTC Law Group
* Brandon Lum, Google
* David Edelsohn, IBM
* Marc Frankel, Manifest
* Ramesh
* Ria Schalnat, HPE
* Jeff Schutt, Cisco
* Steve Winslow
* Alex Rybak, Revenera
* Daniel
* Sebastian Crane
* Michael Herzog, NexB
* Jilayne Lovejoy, Red Hat
* Mark Gisi
* May Wang
* Gale McCommons, Comcast
* Tony Aiuto, Google
* Paul Madick
