# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - July 7, 2022


## Administrative
### Attendance: 23
- Lead by Phil Odence
- Minutes from last meeting approved

## Steering Committee Update - Phil
* Postive sessions on interop with OWASP/CycloneDX and Allan Friedman at LF Conference
* ARM is now an SPDX member with some other big companies to come
* A series of extra meetings to discuss getting license "namespace" proposal resolved
* Please check what mailing lists you are on, sign up for anything you aren't on but should be, and be mindful of mailing list membership and keeping discussions ot appropriate mailing list.- https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx
* Jilayne leading word to define framework for proposing changes and  reaching quicker resolution on new proposals. Looking for project management experience to help inform.

## Brief Documentation Repository Discussion
* Thread: https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx/topic/91905419#1537
* Vicky sent email to list regarding issues for "getting started w/SPDX" documentation
* Suggestion: a docs repo
* Getting started is hard, so logging obsticles will enable better doc
* Legal Team License LIst team has a doc repo for that particular purpose, so need to define what goes in the new repo
* outreach team has outreach repo for marketing type materials
* Name? "Docs" seems appropriate., can alway reconfigure or rename later as we build up resources
* now created at https://github.com/spdx/DOCS


## Tech Team Report - Gary/WilliamB

### Spec
* SPDX 2.3
* RDF OWL ontology available for review ‚Äì  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.3/ontology/spdx-ontology.owl.ttl
* JSON Schema available for review - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.3/schemas/spdx-schema.json
draft is ready for review in Github - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/
* An HTML version will be available once we resolve a script issue.  We will send out an email to the general dist. list once the HTML is available for review.
* The SPDX Java tools are being updated ‚Äì code is complete, waiting for the spec to be approved before release.
*SPDX 2.3 includes the following changes:
Add external references for security scenarios.
Added a ‚Äúprimary package purpose‚Äù to describe how a software package is intended to be used (e.g. installation file, container) ‚Äì important for some security scenarios
Added several additional hash algorithms
Made several of the licensing properties optional rather than requiring a ‚ÄúNOASSERTION‚Äù value
Added several fields to support lifecycles for the package (valid until date, release date, built date)
Documented the snippet information in files ‚Äì consistent with REUSE recommendations
* SPDX 3.0 modeling work underway
Closed on a few issues related to identity
Canonicalization sub-team making progress [could use update from Sebastion]
working to standardize serializations so they will be interoperable
Build profile sub-team making progress [could use an update from Brandon]
Defects sub- team making progress [could use an update from Thomas]
Aim to get updates from sub-teams next month
* Had a successful meeting with CycloneDX in Austin and launched technical collaboration to make it easier to translate between SPDX and CycloneDX formats
* Started 2 Google Summer of Code Projects ‚Äì both underway
* Some progress on the license namespace proposal ‚Äì agreed on the problem statement, agreed on how the current spec supports some of the use cases, agreed on the policies we would use for registration.  Have not yet come to closure on the syntax.
* Announced William as additional team lead for Tech Team + Steering Committee member üëè

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve
* focus this release cycle has been on the license namespace proposals
* policies for license namespaces have now been finalized; some of the procedures still to be finalized
* Jilayne: matching guidelines never updated to reflect the XML structure for the current license-list-XML repo; working on updates
  * also to resolve where these will live -- just the webpage, just the spec, both?
* 3.18 release coming up end of July -- need to buckle down on getting new additions in

## Outreach Team Report -  Sebastian / Jack / Alexios
* Lots of talks!
  - Kate - OSSNA, also online yesterday for OpenUK
  - Steve - OSSNA talk re: SPDX License List; Zephyr Dev Summit re: generating at build time
  - Joshua Watt - OSSNA talk re: SPDX generation in Yocto at build time
  - Sebastian - have been participating in Reproducible Builds community, section in their monthly report - more collaboration coming
  - Bob - RSA conference talk, included slides on SBOMs with focus on SPDX
  - Would be great to have a list of bullet points to talks and links to videos - probably in Outreach repo? Folks can submit issues to Outreach repo with links to talks
* Kate and Bob involved in IETF working group on SBOMs - effort focused on supply chain integrity, transparency and trust; confidential distributed ledger to gather info, countersign, make available for validation
* Getting Started material in process
* Announced Alexios as additional team lead for Outreach Team + Steering Committee member üëè
* Will be rescheduling meetings for shorter, more actionable + quicker movement

## Attendees
* Phil Odence, Synopsys/Black Duck Audits
* David Edelsohn, IBM
* VM (Vicky) Brasseur, Wipro
* Gary O'Neall
* Paul Madick
* May Wang (Palo Alto Networks)
* Steve Winslow
* Bob Martin
* Christopher Lusk
* Jeff Schutt
* William Cox (Synopsys)
* Bryan Cowan (Fortress)
* Molly Menoni
* Ria Schalnat
* William Bartholomew
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Joshua Watt
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Alfredo Espinosa
* Sebastian Crane
* Adrian Diglio (Microsoft)
* Rich Steenwyk (GE Healthcare)
* Michael Herzog
